---
title: "Five Surprising Things That Can Trigger Keratoconus"
date: 2023-01-02T20:30:35+00:00
draft: false

# post author
author : "Beto R."

# post thumb
image: "images/blog/kcpathogenesis.png"

# meta description
description: "If you have keratoconus, it\'s important to learn what factors can
trigger the condition. These triggers can be anything from allergies to
rubbing your eyes too mucht"

# taxonomies
categories: 
  - "Keratoconus"
  - "New post"
tags:
  - "Blog"
  - "Post"

# post type
type: "post"
---

# Five Surprising Things That Can Trigger Keratoconus, and How To Avoid Them: a article about conditions that can cause keratoconus.

# 

## Introduction

If you have keratoconus, it\'s important to learn what factors can
trigger the condition. These triggers can be anything from allergies to
rubbing your eyes too much. In this blog post, we\'ll discuss five
surprising things that can cause keratoconus, how they affect your
vision and how to avoid them if you\'re at risk of developing the
condition yourself.

## Eye Rubbing

You might think that eye rubbing is a harmless habit, but it can
actually cause some serious problems.

For one thing, if you rub your eyes too much or for too long (which is
all too easy to do when you\'re tired or stressed), you can irritate the
sensitive skin around your eyes and make them dry out. You may also
develop a condition called blepharitis---a bacterial infection of the
eyelids that causes redness and irritation. In some cases, chronic eye
rubbing can lead to keratoconus---the loss of protein in front of your
cornea (the clear front part of your eye) that results in vision loss
over time.

If you want to keep from developing keratoconus, take steps now so that
you don\'t have to worry about these symptoms later: stop rubbing your
eyes!

## Exposure to the Elements

-   UV light. The intensity of UV rays is stronger in places like the
    desert, and can also be found in other areas of the world that have
    a high altitude or are very warm.

-   Sunscreens don\'t protect you from keratoconus. Wear polarized
    glasses or baseball caps in the sun.

## Too Much (or too Little) Nutrition

It\'s not just what you eat, but how much of it. For example, too little
vitamin B2 (riboflavin), which is found in leafy greens and dairy
products, can help developing keratoconus. Similarly, too much vitamin C
can make your cornea thinner (a big problem if you already have a thin
cornea).

The same goes for other nutrients: too little or too much of any
substance can be harmful to the eye. The key is finding a balance
between what you\'re eating and drinking now---and also making sure that
any supplements or vitamins you take are safe for your eyesight as well.

## Unhealthy Habits

Your lifestyle choices and habits can have a big impact on your health.
If you're already living with keratoconus, it's important to be careful
about which activities you participate in, as they may cause further
damage to your cornea. Smoking, drinking alcohol and taking drugs,
stress (both mental and physical), poor diet, lack of sleep and
overexposure to the sun are all things that should be avoided if
possible.

If you think one or more of these behaviors is affecting your corneas
negatively but aren't sure how best to stop them from doing so---or if
stopping them isn't going to be enough---it might be time for an eye
exam with an optometrist or ophthalmologist who specializes in treating
keratoconus patients like yourself. Checking out our list of doctors
near you will help to find one who has experience diagnosing their
patients\' eyesight so that they can prescribe treatment plans
accordingly.\"

## Squinting

Squinting is the act of closing one or both eyes to see small print,
such as a restaurant menu or a street sign. It can cause eye strain and
headaches if done excessively, and certainly can damage your cornea with
constant abuse.

## Using the Wrong Contact Lens Solution

You've probably heard of contact lens solutions, but do you know what
they actually do? Contact lens solutions are what keep your lenses moist
and clean. This keeps your eyes healthy, which is especially important
if you have keratoconus.

There are different types of contact lens solutions: multipurpose,
sterile and disinfecting. You can also get a special solution for hard
lenses---like scleral lenses, these are made from a different material
than soft contacts so they don't need to be cleaned as often.

You may need to change your solution more often than usual if they were
made by an outside manufacturer (e.g., not Bausch & Lomb). If this is
the case, ask your optometrist or ophthalmologist how often he or she
recommends changing it!

## If you have keratoconus, you need to think back to what triggers it.

If you have keratoconus, you need to think and remember your visual
habits.

Speak with an eye doctor or optometrist. He or she can determine if
there is a specific trigger for your eye condition like seasonal
allergies and help you understand how to avoid that trigger.

## Conclusion

All in all, we hope this article has given you some insight into the
many different ways keratoconus can develop. And while it's true that
not everyone with keratoconus will experience every one of these
triggers, it's important for all of us to be aware of them so we can do
our best to avoid them and help prevent others from developing this
condition as well.
